# Listers

For a directory contains a combination of function and method handlers you'll get matching number of listers for receiver types inside the helpers file. Look at your helpers file now for the related section. Notice the return types mention a symbol declared inside the gohandlers package. You need to get the package in addition to installing CLI prior to compiling your code.

```go
package handlers

import "github.com/ufukty/gohandlers/pkg/gohandlers"

func ListHandlers() map[string]gohandlers.HandlerInfo
func (u *User) ListHandlers() map[string]gohandlers.HandlerInfo
func (p *Pets) ListHandlers() map[string]gohandlers.HandlerInfo
```

Inside each lister there is only one statement, that constructs a `map` literal and returns to the caller. The map literal is assigned handler names and meta data as keys and values. So you can use it for registering routes into the `http.ServeMux` or the router of your choice. Examine the content of a very usual lister:

```go
func (pe *Pets) ListHandlers() map[string]gohandlers.HandlerInfo {
  return map[string]gohandlers.HandlerInfo{
    "Create": {Method: "POST", Path: "/create", Ref: pe.Create},
    "Delete": {Method: "DELETE", Path: "/pets/{id}", Ref: pe.Delete},
    "Get":    {Method: "GET", Path: "/pets/{id}", Ref: pe.Get},
    "List":   {Method: "GET", Path: "/pets", Ref: pe.List},
  }
}
```

## Using listers

Listers are functions that return a `map` of handler names and handler meta data. The meta data contains path, method and a pointer to the method. Using listers, user can automate route registration to the `ServeMux` (or any router) with help of a simple loop such as:

```go
func main() {
  pets := pets.NewPetsHandler()

  mux := http.NewServeMux()
  for name, meta := range pets.ListHandlers() {
    fmt.Println("registering:", name, "as", meta.Method, meta.Path)
    mux.HandleFunc(meta.Path, meta.Ref)
  }

  log.Println("Starting server on :8080...")
  http.ListenAndServe(":8080", mux)
}
```

Using handler listers is great to eliminate missing route issues due to the outdated registration file. Just, make sure build command is in your build pipeline.

## Fun fact

You might be thinking yourself "Why the helpers file doesn't declare the meta data struct itself instead of importing from a package?". The reason is that when you have handlers spread across the different directories of your project, such as in a microservices project, you'll produce multiple helpers file. If each declares its `HandlerInfo` you would be disabled to implement a project-wide function that processes an `HandlerInfo` value. Such as a function that takes a lister, router and logger and register routes to router after logging for easier debugging. This is the case because Go interfaces only lets you to generalize types by the list of common methods, and not fields.

```go
package receptionist

import (
  "net/http"

  "github.com/ufukty/gohandlers/pkg/gohandlers"
)

func Register(l *slog.Logger, m *http.ServeMux, h map[string]gohandlers.HandlerInfo)
```

Of course, a function as such is only a simplification. You might have better reasons to declare a lister-accepting function.
