# Making requests

With Gohandlers provided request builders and response parsers making requests between Go services should feel like RPC. But it is not. You are actually using the good old `http` package provided `DefaultClient` underneath and your choice of body encoding, like the `json` or `x-www-form-urlencoded`.

```go
type Desk struct {
  pets *pets.Client
}

func (d *Desk) NewPet(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
  // ...

  bq, err := d.pets.Create(&handlers.CreateRequest{
    Name: "Cookie",
    Tag:  "Fluffy"
  })
  // ...
  fmt.Println(bq.ID)

  // ...
}
```

## Host pool

Client constructor expects a `Pool` value. `Pool` is an interface of types implement `Host` method. A `Pool` value is expected to return the next available host's address at each method call. By providing your implementation of the `Pool` to the constructor you are abstracting the load balancing logic from rest of your service codebase will make requests. One simple implementation of a `Pool` type might be like the below. It either returns an error in case of there is no available host, or returns a random one at each call, impersonating the round robin method.

```go
type MyPool []string

func (p MyPool) Host() (string, error) {
  if len(p) == 0 {
    return "", fmt.Errorf("no hosts available")
  }
  return p[rand.IntN(len(p))], nil
}
```

## Initialization

Start with importing the client package. Construct your pool. Then pass the client to your handler's or app's struct as a dependency. After that, your handlers must be able to perform service-to-service requests by calling the methods on the client.

```go
package main

import (
  pets "petstore/cmd/pets/client"
  "petstore/cmd/desk/handlers"
)

func main() {
  pool := MyPool([]string{"127.0.0.1:8081"})
  pets := pets.NewClient(pool)
  _ := handlers.NewDesk(pets)
  // ...
}
```

## For the unit testing

Instead of using the concrete `Client` implementation, use the `Interface` type to declare dependency type to your consumer service handler. Then you can construct and provide the actual `Client` in `main` and the `Mock` in the unit tests. This will enable you to keep testing methods in isolation.

```go
import pets "petstore/cmd/pets/client"

type Desk struct {
  pets pets.Interface
}
```

```go
import pets "petstore/cmd/pets/client"

func TestDesk_NewPet(t *testing.T) {
  d := Desk{
    Pets: &pets.Mock{
      CreateFunc: func(*pets.CreateRequest) (*pets.CreateResponse, error) {
        // ...
      }
    }
  }
}
```
